<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
      xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
      xmlns:p="http://primefaces.org/ui"
      xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets">
<h:head>
	<title>StemChecker</title>
	<script src="Chart.js" type="text/javascript"/>
	<script src="sorttable.js" type="text/javascript"/>
	<script src="stemchecker.js" type="text/javascript"/>
	<link href="./css/stemCheckerStyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	<link href="./css/SearchPageStyle.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	

</h:head>
<h:body>

<h:form id="sc">
	<ui:include src="header.xhtml"/>

	<div id="main">
	
		
		<h1>What is StemChecker?</h1>
		<p>StemChecker is a web-server that enables researchers to rapidly check whether a given list of genes can be associated with stemness. 
		For this purpose, we curated numerous published <i>stemness signatures</i> derived by alternative approaches. StemChecker compares the 
		genes uploaded by the user with those in curated <i>stemness signatures</i>, and evaluates the statistical significance of the overlap. 
		The results are then displayed in alternative formats showing the overall association of the whole set of input genes with stemness, 
		as well as the occurrence of individual genes in the curated <i>stemness signatures</i>. Additionally, StemChecker verifies whether 
		the input genes are targeted by a set of transcription factors linked to pluripotency and stem cell maintenance, and displays these 
		results.</p>
	
		<h1>Why StemChecker?</h1>
		<p>In recent years a large number of studies have been undertaken to define the characteristic properties of stem cells, i.e. their 
		capacity for self-renewal and for differentiation into other cell types. As a result of these studies, various gene sets have been 
		identified: the so-called <i>stemness signatures</i>, which are considered to be necessary, or at least associated, with the defining 
		characteristics of stem cells. However, to date, no “universal” <i>stemness signature</i> has been established. In fact, published 
		<i>stemness signatures</i> can differ considerably, especially the ones derived by different experimental approaches.</p>
		<p>Despite their heterogeneity, <i>stemness signatures</i> are an invaluable resource for the study of stem cell generation, maintenance 
		and differentiation. Furthermore, <i>stemness signatures</i> have been found to be important indicators for the study of diseases 
		such as cancer. However, their usage has been hampered by the lack of a comprehensive resource, as well as easy-to-use tools for analysis. 
		Most published <i>stemness signatures</i> are hidden as supplementary materials or scattered across multiple repositories, limiting a 
		broader access and wider usage.</p>
		<p>For this reason, we have developed StemChecker. This unified web-tool allows researchers to easily confirm whether their genes of 
		interest are included in a comprehensive set of published <i>stemness signatures</i>, without having to carry out lengthy literature 
		curation or data processing.</p>
		
	
		<h1>How can I use StemChecker?</h1>
		<p>To begin the analysis, click on the Analysis button above. This opens the page where one can insert the genes of interest in the 
		text field or upload them in a file, containing official gene symbols or Entrez Gene IDs as gene identifiers, each separated either 
		by empty spaces or commas. On this page it can also be selected which <i>stemness signatures</i> should be included in the analysis, 
		and whether the generated checkerboards should be ordered by rows or columns. After pressing the <i>Search &amp; Analyse</i> button, 
		the results of the analysis are displayed on three pages, each in its own tab: (i) <i>Overview/Stats</i> showing the overlap of the 
		input genes with <i>stemness signatures</i> and its statistical significance, (ii) <i>Stemness Match</i> displaying a 
		checkerboard-like table which indicates the occurrence of individual genes in different <i>stemness signatures</i> and (iii) <i>TF 
		Match</i> showing which of the input genes are targets of pluripotency-associated transcription factors.</p>
		
		
		<p>You will find a detailed step-by-step tutorial on the <a href="stemsethelp.jsf">Help page</a>. For a start, you can also simply 
		lean back and enjoy our short video that will give you a quick run over the main features of StemChecker.</p>
	
		<br/>
		
		<div style="text-align:center;width:100%;" >
			<iframe width="620" height="415" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4euq84rGk_c"/>
		</div>
		
		
		<div style="display:none" >	
			<p:fileUpload id="upload" />
		</div>
	</div>
	
	<br/>			
	<br/>	
    <div style="font-size:1.20em">
		<strong><a href="http://nar.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2015/05/24/nar.gkv529.abstract?keytype=ref&amp;ijkey=QnNu1UyA7s5Vm4I">StemChecker is described in the Nucleic Acids Research Web Server Issue 2015</a></strong>.
	</div>
	
	<ui:include src="header2.xhtml"/>

</h:form>
</h:body></html>